Party: People's Action Party (PAP)
Year: 2025

PAP Manifesto: Changed World, Fresh Team, New Resolve – Securing a Brighter Future for You


This Manifesto Is Our Promise To You
It reflects your hopes, concerns and aspirations,
and what we will do to realise our shared vision.

Our commitment is clear:
We will serve you, support you, stand with you.
We will always put you at the centre of all we do.


Our Journey With You
For over 60 years, the People’s Action Party (PAP) has worked with you, and for you.

Together, we have transformed Singapore and uplifted the lives of generations.

Together, we have made Singapore an endearing home and an oasis of peace and harmony.


The World Is Changing...
Global changes are taking place. The implications for the world economy, international security and Singapore are profound.


We Are Entering A New Phase
SG60 marks a new phase of nation building. This is an opportunity to refresh our social compact and our Singapore Dream.


Our Commitment
We know your concerns, including cost of living, jobs and homes. The PAP will work with you to overcome these and future challenges, and build a better future for all.


Forward Together
Through engagements like Forward Singapore, you have shared with us what matters to you. This manifesto sets out how we will put your hopes and aspirations into action.

Together, we can turn our dreams into reality!

A DYNAMIC ECONOMY –

OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL
Chapter 1

We want a Singapore where opportunities abound, and there is pride and recognition in every job. In the past five years, we have recovered from the Covid pandemic, made incomes more equal, and enabled Singaporeans to earn more.

We will grow a dynamic economy that generates jobs and opportunities for all.

We will:

provide more support for PMETs, and nurture more Singaporean corporate leaders
strengthen safeguards for fair employment, including through the Workplace Fairness Act
keep Singapore a reliable and trusted hub for business
invest in transport and digital infrastructure to enhance our connectivity
adopt new technologies faster, including Artificial Intelligence, to stay ahead of the competition
secure clean energy for the future, including exploring nuclear power

We will support businesses, especially SMEs, to restructure and grow.

We will:

ease cost pressures through tax rebates and measures like the Progressive Wage Credit Scheme
enable businesses to upgrade and raise their productivity
make it easier for businesses to access manpower and capital
help companies expand into new markets

MORE PATHWAYS –

MORE FULFILLED DREAMS
CHAPTER 2

Our education system is robust. Still, intense competition can lead to pressure and stress. Hence our major changes to focus on the joy of learning and to help every child discover and develop their strengths. We have replaced streaming with subject-based banding, and revamped the PSLE scoring system and the Gifted Education Programme.

We will continue to reform and reshape education so that we can all become the best versions of ourselves.

We will:

broaden definitions of success
customise education for diverse abilities and interests
invest in our teachers’ professional development
partner parents, industry and the community to deliver holistic, rounded education

To cater for students with special needs we will:

build four new Special Education (SPED) schools by 2030
establish more early intervention centres for children with developmental needs
extend the Development Support-Learning Support Programme to more pre-schools
Beyond schools, we are investing significantly in every adult Singaporean through SkillsFuture.

We will do more to:

empower Singaporeans to reskill and upskill, and advance in their careers
help companies redesign jobs and invest in worker training
help Singaporeans who have lost their jobs to bounce back with the SkillsFuture Jobseeker Support Scheme

FOR EVERY SINGAPOREAN –

THE SUPPORT THAT YOU NEED
CHAPTER 3

Like many other countries, Singapore faces cost pressures, driven by wars and supply chain disruptions. But we have actively shielded Singaporeans from these rising costs.

Households will receive CDC vouchers, cash payouts, utilities rebates and other support to help with your living expenses. We will support you for as long as necessary.

Parents will enjoy expanded Parental Leave, lower pre-school fees, and enhanced support for large families. We will continue to strengthen our marriage and parenthood support programmes, to provide families with children all the help they need.


To uplift and empower Singaporeans who need more support, we will:

reinforce social safety nets, e.g. ComCare and Silver Support
enhance Workfare for lower-wage workers and extend Progressive Wages to more sectors
work with lower-income families individually through ComLink+, to help them build better lives
get children from disadvantaged backgrounds off to a good start through regular pre-school attendance and higher childcare subsidies
To build a more inclusive Singapore for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs), we will:

strengthen the post-18 transition from school to work
boost employment opportunities for PwDs
subsidise adult disability services more generously
pilot community living models to offer more choices for independent living

FOR SENIORS –

FINANCIAL SECURITY AND PEACE OF MIND
CHAPTER 4

Seniors should enjoy their golden years with financial security and peace of mind. To support our seniors, we created the Majulah Package, and enhanced the Workfare Income Supplement and Silver Support Scheme.

We also provided matching grants to encourage you to top-up the CPF Retirement Accounts of your elderly relatives.


Source: The Straits Times © Singapore Press Holdings Limited.

To provide further assurance and security for our seniors, we will:

raise the re-employment age so that seniors who wish to continue working can do so
increase senior worker CPF contribution rates
co-fund wages to encourage employers to hire and retain seniors
review and enhance our CPF system
provide matching grants for voluntary top-ups to the CPF MediSave Account
To care for seniors in their golden years, we will:

build more Active Ageing Centres to keep people engaged and mobile
increase subsidies for seniors needing long-term care
develop new models of care for those who wish to age in place
strengthen support for caregivers, the unsung heroes in our families

MORE AFFORDABLE HEALTHCARE –

BETTER HEALTH
CHAPTER 5

Health is precious. We want Singaporeans to enjoy good physical and mental health throughout life.

We will continue to make healthcare more affordable. We will go beyond treating illness. We will empower Singaporeans to stay healthy through preventive care and healthier lifestyles with:

Grow Well SG for children and adolescents
Healthier SG for adults
Age Well SG for seniors
innovations like the Queenstown Health District

Source: The Straits Times © Singapore Press Holdings Limited.

We will ramp up healthcare capacity and shorten wait times. We will:

add 13,600 beds to our healthcare system in the next five years
redevelop Alexandra Hospital and open the new Eastern General Hospital by 2030
grow our healthcare and nursing workforce
We will boost support for mental health with:

a National Mental Health Office
more access to mental health services
capability building and expansion of hospital and long-term care capacity

MORE AFFORDABLE PUBLIC HOUSING –

MORE CHOICES
CHAPTER 6

Every Singaporean will always have the opportunity to own a high quality, affordable home. Our building programme was set back by the Covid pandemic. But we are on track to launch 100,000 new HDB flats between 2021 and 2025, as we had promised.


To keep public housing affordable and accessible, we will:

build more than 50,000 new flats over the next three years, equivalent to an entire Ang Mo Kio town
increase Shorter Waiting Time flats
explore more public housing options for higher-income couples and singles
act decisively, when needed, to foster a stable and sustainable property market
plan for the rejuvenation of HDB towns, including through the Voluntary Early Redevelopment Scheme (VERS)

Artist Impression: Mount Pleasant Housing Estate

The new HDB classification framework – Standard, Plus and Prime BTO flats – will keep flats in choice locations within reach of more applicants. These include new housing estates at:

Kallang-Whampoa, the first open concept “white flats” which offer flexibility for home-owners to configure their own spaces
Bayshore, with waterfront living at East Coast Park
Mount Pleasant, incorporating the rich heritage of the Old Police Academy


A VIBRANT CITY –

MORE SUSTAINABLE LIVING
CHAPTER 7

We have blossomed from a Garden City into a City in Nature. Now, we will make green living a way of life.

We will continue to reduce carbon emissions to reach net-zero by 2050, so as to secure a cleaner and greener Singapore for future generations.

We will expand our:

green spaces with 25 new parks, 50km of park connectors and 13 new therapeutic gardens to enrich our interaction with nature
blue spaces with a second marine park at Lazarus South and Kusu Reef

Artist Impression: The Long Island

We will integrate flood resilience, land reclamation and redevelopment to protect Singapore from rising sea levels, while creating beautiful waterfront living such as the Long Island and the Greater Southern Waterfront.


We will make commuting faster, greener and more seamless. To bring 8 in 10 households within a 10-minute walk from a train station, we will:

build new Jurong Regional and Cross-Island Lines and extend existing lines
expand and improve bus services


ARTS, CULTURE AND SPORTS –

EVERYWHERE FOR EVERYONE
CHAPTER 8

We have nurtured a more thriving arts scene, and made a modest mark on the global sporting stage. Now we will take sports, arts and culture to new heights – making them more accessible and enjoyable for all.

To encourage active living and bring sports closer to Singaporeans, we will:

develop Kallang Alive, including a new indoor arena, and a new home for Team Singapore
build new sports facilities in Clementi, Punggol and Toa Payoh
upgrade existing facilities in Hougang, Pasir Ris and Queenstown

To support and grow Singapore’s arts and culture scene, we will:

expand the SG Culture Pass
introduce early arts exposure in school and pre-school
offer more arts apprenticeships and scholarships
offer more arts spaces and support for artists
establish a new Museum of Design


A MORE UNITED TEAM –

A STRONGER SINGAPORE
CHAPTER 9

Unity is Singapore’s greatest strength. Without unity, we would not have come this far. In a turbulent world, it is more important than ever to stand together as one people, ready to confront any challenge and build a brighter future for all.

To strengthen our cohesiveness, we will:

build our Singaporean identity
uphold our multi-racial and multi-religious society
enhance integration efforts
keep Singapore an oasis of peace and harmony
We will build a society where:

there is respect for all
everyone is valued
no one is left behind
We will refresh our social compact and do more with, and for, each other. We will:

nurture a stronger culture of giving
connect donors and volunteers to those in need
increase avenues for civic participation
strengthen the partnership between people and government

Thank you for the trust that you have placed in the PAP over the past 60 years.

Our Singapore Story would not have been possible without your support.

No matter how the world changes, the PAP will always be there for you, and committed to you.

This manifesto was inspired by your suggestions and ideas. This is our shared vision to take Singapore forward.

Please support the PAP, so that we can turn your ideas into action, and bring our vision to life.

Together, we can move forward with hope, confidence and optimism for our future.
