Party: Red Dot United (RDU)
Year: 2020

RED DOT UNITED
EXPLORE NEW DIRECTIONS TOGETHER.
THE RDU GUARANTEE
Red Dot United (RDU) guarantees that we will give our best to serve the residents of Jurong GRC 
and  run  their  Town  Council  efficiently  and  prudently  if  elected,  ensuring  that  all  processes  are  
transparent and that all responsibilities are fulfilled.  In Parliament, RDU will consistently hold all 
policies and elected officials accountable to the principles and values of our Singapore pledge.  
We will speak up to enable Singaporeans to be the Captains of their own Lives, while caring for 
those in need of assistance.  We will:
• push for policy changes in areas such as Jobs, Housing, Healthcare, Arts and Culture to improve 
the lives and happiness of Singaporeans, and reduce their anxiety and stress;
• advocate  for  Singaporeans  to  have  more  options  and  flexibility  through  access  to  needed  
information on our Governance and Reserves Management, and in areas like the use of their 
own CPF monies, and Education;
• champion  policies  that  make  Singapore  ready  for  the  future,  focusing  on  Wages,  Economy,  
Total Fertility Rate, and Climate Change; and
• safeguard  our  Constitution  by  subjecting  constitutional  changes  to  a  much  greater  level  of  
scrutiny and debate.
Please support our RED DOT UNITED members so that we can speak up to put Singaporeans at the 
heart of governance in Singapore and work hard to unleash the full potential of the people, our 
most precious resource.
United we can!
RED DOT UNITED
CONTENTS
Introduction
Captains of our Lives
Improving Lives, Reducing Anxiety for Singaporeans
Providing More Options and Flexibility for Singaporeans
Ensuring Singapore is Ready for the Future 
3
5
7
12
16
INTRODUCTION
SAILING THROUGH UNCHARTERED AND TROUBLED WATERS
From the trade wars between big countries to COVID-19, Singapore is going through a rough patch. 
But rough patches do not last forever. Nations with strong institutions, adaptable economies and 
resilient people survive them. 
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in 2013 that despite the massive reserves accumulated by 
the  sacrifices  of  our  people  through  the  generations,  and  despite  us  rising  from  a  Third  World  
country to become a First World one, we are just an upgraded version of a sampan – “Sampan 2.0”.
This is very troubling! Why? Because a Sampan – regardless of whether it is an upgraded version 
or not – is only a one-man operated vehicle. 
The ruling party asks the people for a strong mandate, they want Singaporeans to give them all the 
levers of control so that they alone can continue to operate Singapore and control Singaporeans in 
the manner they wish to. They believe that only they have all the answers.  
The  political  playing  field  continues  to  be  further  tilted  to  perpetuate  a  one-party  dominance  
where systems are purposely kept weak. Election after election they ask for a strong mandate but 
once our people give it to them, we have seen them tinker not only with our lives and livelihoods 
but also with our Constitution. 
Institutional safeguards are purposely left vague so as to give the PAP leaders enormous powers. 
The Prevention from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (POFMA) is a very good example of 
how much power they have given themselves – even to be the initial arbiters of truth. The PAP has 
argued that the powers they have are to prevent the emergence of a rogue government. But what 
if one does emerge after all? Power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. 
3
If a self-serving leadership were to appear, they would be unstoppable by the weak institutions 
we now have in Singapore. 
CAN WE CONTINUE TO REMAIN A ‘SAMPAN’ – EVEN A ‘SAMPAN 2.0’?
The PAP has said over and over again that Singapore is not ready for multi-party democracy, that 
only they have the ‘A’ Team to take Singapore forward. But let us not forget that a sampan, even a 
Sampan 2.0 with the steadiest of hands, can only take its passengers that far.
In  an  increasingly  globalised,  competitive  and  fast-paced  world,  the  challenges  Singapore  face  
have  become  more  complex  and  multi-faceted.  With  global  uncertainties  and  with  technology  
transforming and disrupting many industries with traditional jobs, Singapore is sailing through 
unchartered waters towards an uncertain future. 
When the world moves towards powerful zero-carbon ocean liners, we cannot remain a Sampan 
2.0. While a sampan needs just one man to operate it, ocean liners require many hands on deck to 
take it in a new direction.  
EMPOWERED TO BECOME THE CAPTAINS OF OUR OWN LIVES
With the many perils ahead of us and with the many twists and turns before us, we must come 
together and work hand-in-hand to chart the way forward. We cannot rely only on one person, or 
just one party. 
This  is  why  we  have  to  strengthen  our  key  institutions  with  the  core  values  of  Fairness,  
Accountability, Integrity and Transparency. We have to align our compasses towards a future of 
Happiness, Hope and Heart. Let us be your voice and your hands to make this fundamental change 
– to enable you to be the captains of your very own lives.
To do this, we seek your vote and your mandate. Vote for us! Every vote points our leaders in the 
right direction. 
4
CAPTAINS OF OUR LIVES
In  the  past,  we  allowed  the  Government  to  intrude  into  our  lives  and  families  as  some  of  these  
were  necessary  for  social  cohesion.  But  five  decades  of  paternalistic  governance  has  inhibited  
independent  thinking  and  creative  expression.  The  ruling  party  has  established  a  system  of  
‘carrots and sticks’. This system of fear and control has made Singapore and Singaporeans less 
passionate and more conformist. 
One of our candidates for Jurong GRC, Liyana Dhamirah (33)
5
In this age of technological disruption, we cannot continue to rely on others to captain our lives 
by telling us what we can or cannot do. This reliance undermines our ability to grow as a society.  
We need to develop a sense of self-reliance, a belief in ourselves and a willingness to take control 
of our own lives. 
RDU  aims  to  be  a  national  movement  dedicated  to  serving  and  empowering  
Singaporeans - to be the Captains of their own lives and families. 
We will devote all our efforts to helping Singaporeans:
We cannot see the present clearly, much less the future, when we are constantly worrying about 
issues like our jobs, our healthcare expenses, and our retirement adequacy. We cannot take on 
the  future  when  we  are  overly  anxious  about  failing  and  how  to  bounce  back  if  we  do.  RDU  will  
purposefully work towards reducing the unnecessary anxiety levels for Singaporeans.
Having more options with flexibility in our policies, from CPF to education, is also important as 
it  will  mean  that  Singaporeans  will  be  able  to  live  a  happier  and  more  satisfying  life.  RDU  will  
propose more options for Singaporeans in several aspects.
The best way to predict the future is to try to create it. As a small island-nation with very little 
natural resources (except our geographically strategic location and our people), staying relevant 
and adaptable is an existential necessity for Singapore. Thinking long-term about the challenges 
and opportunities of the future should therefore be an integral part of the Singapore DNA. RDU 
includes  a  plurality  of  views  so  as  to  encourage  greater  foresight  into  our  policy  proposals  for  
Singapore to take advantage of the many opportunities in the future. 
Improve their lives
and reduce anxiety;
Create more
options; and
Be ready for
the future.
6
IMPROVING LIVES, REDUCING
ANXIETY FOR SINGAPOREANS
SECTOR FOCUS: JOBS, HOUSING, HEALTHCARE, COST OF LIVING, ARTS & CULTURE
VALUES: Equality, Fairness, Happiness, Hope and Heart (empathy and compassion)
JOBS
1. Review of FTAs like CECA to show how Singapore and Singaporeans have benefited from this 
agreement – how many local jobs have gone to Indian professionals, and how many Singaporeans 
have gone to countries like India.
Our youngest candidate, Nicholas Tang (28)
7
1. Review of FTAs like CECA to show how Singapore and Singaporeans have benefited from this 
agreement – how many local jobs have gone to Indian professionals, and how many Singaporeans 
have ne to countries like India.
2. Assess bearing of Employment Pass system to study bearing on unfair competition for good 
jobs for Singaporeans.
3. Offer  more  protections  to  workers  working  under  the  gig  economy.  There  is  a  need  to  look  
at  the  classification  of  workers  as  employees  or  independent  contractors.  The  Employment  
Act could be revised to clamp down on errant employers, preventing them from abusing the 
distinction between employees and independent contractors in order to avoid giving benefits 
and protections to employees by classifying them as independent contractors. 
4. Ensure  a  Singaporean  First  hiring  policy  by  reevaluating  the  effectiveness  of  the  Fair  
Consideration  Framework  to  assess  if  it  is  an  effective  mechanism  to  ensure  Singaporeans  
have access to good jobs.
5. Introduce an award scheme for Human Resource managers with good compliance track record 
for prioritising jobs for Singaporeans and provide incentives for companies to employ such HR 
managers.
6. Encourage  more  people  to  upgrade  themselves  by  starting  the  reverse  way  –  match  
Professionals, Managers, Executives & Technicians (PMETs) to jobs before they go through an 
OJT or part-time training programme. Salary support can come from government to incentivize 
companies to hire such people and train them. The Professional Conversion Program where the 
government pays up to $4,000 monthly salary to the company when they hire and re-train the 
employee is in place can be expanded. The agencies managing this need to identify why the 
take up is not as much as desired to be effective in absorbing the displaced PMETs.
7. Reserve  some  jobs  for  Singaporeans  in  selected  future  growth  sectors  to  enable  capability  
transfers and to grow local expertise.
HOUSING
1. Make  En-bloc  Redevelopment  Programme  Mandatory  to  ease  Singaporeans’  concerns  about  
lease decay and the value of their HDB flats.
8
1. Allow
2. Allow Singles to buy bigger 3-room or smaller BTO and lower the minimum age under the Single 
Singapore  Citizen  Scheme  (SSC)  and  the  Joint  Singles  Scheme  (JSS)  progressively,  so  that  
Singles  can  eventually  buy  flats  at  age  30.  This  will  ease  the  burden  of  Singles  to  be  less  
dependent  on  their  parents.  It  will  also  address  the  perceived  inability  of  finding  suitable  
housing which is a deterrent to early marriage.  
3. Establish greater transparency in the cost of building HDB flats with a breakdown of land cost 
and  building  cost  in  order  to  price  HDB  flats  affordably  in  a  sustainable  manner.  Price  new  
flats at a multiples of median income and location factor. This will ensure affordability and as 
income levels of Singaporeans change through the years, government revenue from flat sales 
would also rise. Therefore, better aligning the interest of individual and state. This will also 
incentivise policy makers to grow the wage share of Singaporeans.
HEALTHCARE
1. Provide  heavily  subsidized  quarterly-to-annual  doctor  consultations  without  means  testing,  
during which all preventive health measures such as vaccinations and screenings are carried 
out  at  the  same  time.  This  will  help  to  identify  ailments  such  as  diabetes  and  hypertension  
early, ensuring better health for citizens and lesser cost for acute care in hospitals.
2. Improving Medifund to provide support for needy Singaporeans, as well as assistance in huge 
medical bills that can cripple the lives of average Singaporean families.
3. Adopt  a  proactive  regulatory-change  framework  for  Medical  Technology  (MedTech)  usage  
especially in home care and where it provides considerable cost reductions in health care for 
Singaporeans.  MedTech  like  wearable  medical  devices  and  home  health  monitoring  devices  
are becoming more prevalent among patients of all ages. These devices allow vital data to be 
transmitted from a patient’s home directly to hospital and other health care staff, resulting 
in real-time monitoring of a patient’s health. Utilising these types of devices could result in 
considerable cost reductions and operational efficiency improvements.
4. Expand the scope of Medisave for use in more areas of outpatient consultations. 
9
1. 
1. 
1. c.   I
2. I
3. 
4. Improve  transparency  of  Standard  Drug  List  (SDL)  of  subsidised  drugs  and  decision-making  
processes leading to drug being placed on the list. 
5. Separate dispensing from medical treatment in the private sector.
6. Study the benefits of the move to convert our public hospitals into restructured hospitals to 
examine whether a reverse course would be beneficial to Singaporeans and lower medical bills.
7. Establish a watchdog agency to examine healthcare costs and abuses of the system or consider 
a national health insurance scheme, incentivising government regulation of healthcare costs.
COST OF LIVING
1. ‘No’ to a further rise in the Goods & Services Tax (GST) or other fees, in the next five years.
2. Make policy makers focus more on growing the wages of Singaporeans. Globalisation aggravates 
inequality and one measure used to track this is the share of wages in national income. Despite 
having one of the highest GDP per capita in the world, our wage share of GDP is around 43% 
(lower than that of most developed economies, which is at 50% or more). This may mean that 
workers in Singapore are underpaid, and raises questions of if Singapore’s economic growth 
has disproportionately benefitted multinational companies and capital owners at the expense 
of workers. Wage redistribution policies are also skewed towards better educated top-earners. 
3. In benchmarking their salaries to 60% of the median income of the top 1,000 earners who are 
citizens, the Government Ministers have chosen to identify themselves with the top earners. 
Because their wages are pegged to the top earners, they have every incentive to ensure that 
the  salaries  of  this  group  of  earners  remain  high  and  continue  to  increase,  while  they  have  
very little incentive to grow the incomes of all Singaporeans. To incentivise the Government 
to grow the wage shares in Singapore to match that of other first world nations, Ministerial 
salaries should be pegged to multiples of the Median Gross Monthly Income from Work.
ARTS & CULTURE
1. Provide more focus and effort on growing craftsmanship.
2. Provide more support for those who preserve and grow the repository of our arts and culture.
10
Our secretary-general and Jurong GRC 
candidate, Ravi Philemon (52)
11
PROVIDING MORE OPTIONS AND
FLEXIBILITY FOR SINGAPOREANS
SECTOR  FOCUS:  GOVERNANCE  &  NATIONAL  RESERVES,  CENTRAL  PROVIDENT  FUND,  
EDUCATION, CIVIL LIBERTIES
VALUES: Fairness, Accountability, Integrity, Transparency, Independence
GOVERNANCE & NATIONAL RESERVES
1. Review public spending by Public Institutions, such as $880,000 rubbish bin for National Arts 
Council and projects such as the Budget Terminal built at a cost of $45 million and scrapped 
after being in operation for just 6-years. 
2. Review  legislation  such  as  the  Presidential  Elections  Act  to  study  if  such  laws  should  allow  
for wider competition among qualified Singaporeans to provide better checks and balances, 
especially in the area of protecting our reserves and the function of public appointments.
3. Provide greater transparency in the Key Performance Indexes of public organisations or former 
public organisations that had been privatised and/or corporatised.
CENTRAL PROVIDENT FUND
1. Allow CPF Members an option to withdraw all their monies in the Provident Fund at retirement 
age. This will allow senior citizens to live their lives with dignity, and provide for flexibility to 
make their own retirement plans.
2. Allow members to borrow from their own CPF accounts to steady themselves in an uncertain 
jobs market. In today’s uncertain job market, retrenchments are more common than they used 
to be. This will reduce anxiety as it is more difficult for unemployed older workers to find an 
appropriate new job, and they may remain unemployed for a longer period of time.
3. Study  if  more  competition  by  professional  fund  managers  can  be  introduced  to  get  better  
returns on CPF Savings for Members.  
12
1. Pr
2. ov
3. ide 
4. Provide more options for CPF Members, for example, by incentivising staggered withdrawal of 
CPF money in 5 or 10 year intervals after retirement age through better interest rates for such 
savings.
EDUCATION
1. Build in more flexibility in curriculum to allow students to experiment and pursue their interests, 
whether it be sporting, artistic, technical or academic in specific domains (Languages, Maths 
or Science).
2. For  students  in  alternate  education  programmes  (e.g.  Madrasah,  home-schoolers),  provide  
an equal quantum of funding pegged against government expenditure per student, aimed at 
improving  secular  subjects  such  as  language,  maths  and  science.  Such  funding  will  ensure  
that students who are Singapore citizens do not get second-rate education or worse. 
3. Expand Compulsory Education Act to cover all Singaporean children to complete ten years of 
primary and secondary education in approved educational programmes before they turn 18.
4. Relook  school  curriculum  and  syllabus  to  give  more  emphasis  to  topics  like  computational  
skills and soft skills.
5. Ensure   andragogic   and   pedagogic   educational   qualifications   have   better   international   
recognition.
6. Emphasise sports and other life-skills training for our children, where they can interact across 
schools and economic divides.
7. Expand the Anchor Operator Programme (AOP) to include ‘diversity’ in its assessment criteria 
of  preschool  service  providers,  and  this  criteria  should  be  given  greater  weightage  over  
criterions like ‘the ability to increase capacity’. With a falling Total Fertility Rate (TFR), the 
criteria to ‘increase capacity’ is less relevant. This will help to ease parents’ worry that that 
current  AOP  model  will  not  lay  the  foundations  for  their  young  ones  to  be  prepared  for  the  
future  by  emphasising  character-building,  emotional  development  and  more  individualized  
education.
13
1. E
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. Review the National Education framework to encourage students to research, discuss and hold 
learning journeys to learn about the different ethnic and religious groups living and working 
in Singapore to build a more understanding and cohesive society.
8. Make every school a good school where the neighbourhood primary and secondary schools have 
smaller class sizes so that the burden of tuition will be lessened. MOE will have to recalibrate 
teachers’ intake upwards to pre-2014 levels to make this happen. 
9. Allow Singaporean children to study in International Schools if they so choose. This will free 
up spaces at the more popular schools so that there will be more spaces for other children. 
CIVIL LIBERTIES
1. Review the current form of Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (POFMA
2. Review the current form of the Internal Security Act (ISA).
3. Advocate for Freedom of Information to enhance citizen access to information.
4. The  right  to  freedom  of  assembly,  speech  and  expression  are  the  Constitutional  rights  of  
Singaporeans. In 2009, in amending the Public Order Act, the Government redefined “assembly” 
to reduce the number of participants from five to just one person. We have to review the Public 
Order Act.   
14
‘Politics with
Principles, 
Vision with
Values’
Our chairperson and Jurong GRC
candidate, Michelle Lee (43)
15
ENSURING SINGAPORE IS READY
FOR THE FUTURE
SECTOR  FOCUS:  SUPPORT  FOR  LOCAL  BUSINESSES,  INCREASING  TOTAL  FERTILITY  
RATE, CLIMATE CHANGE
VALUES: Fairness, Transparency, Happiness, Hope, Unity
SUPPORT FOR LOCAL BUSINESSES
1. Provide priorities in government procurement for local businesses.
2. Use Sovereign-Wealth Fund (SWF) to acquire companies in selected industries and reserving 
some jobs in these companies for Singaporeans to create opportunities for exposure, experience 
and training.
3. Provide pathways for SMEs to partner GLCs/MNCs to venture overseas and provide risk capital 
in the form of debt instruments, quasi equity, and equity alongside technical assistance.
4. Study development of greater synergies with land-abundant neighbouring regions to support 
the whole value chain needs of businesses, thereby jointly offering investors a more attractive 
value proposition that spans borders.
5. Identify and better support local industries of growth with higher value.
6. Support the growth and development of local SMEs and move towards a more progressive tax 
structure.
INCREASING TOTAL FERTILITY RATE
1. Incentivise workplaces to develop family-friendly policies. These could be in the form of tax 
rebates, reliefs, priorities for leases and/or work permits or even awards.
2. Increase paid parental leave from the present 16+2 weeks to 6 months (26 weeks), of which 
at least 8 weeks need to be undertaken by either parent. Single parents can enjoy the full 6 
months paid parental leave.
16
1. E
2. e
3. Ensure that more flats are made available to young people in order to encourage early marriage 
and childbearing. This could be done through lowering the age Singles could buy HDBs (from 35 
to 30) and ensuring there are sufficient sales-for-balance flats (SBF) which could be bought 
by young couples ready to marry and possibly start a family early.
4. One  of  the  largest  opportunity  costs  for  parents  choosing  to  stay  home  in  order  to  wholly  
care for and nurture their children is the loss of income and inability to build up their savings 
for their retirement. Recognition should be given to these parents for their contribution and 
commitment  to  bringing  up  the  next  generation  of  Singaporeans,  and  so  the  bare  minimum  
could be for the state to make contributions to such caregivers’ CPF.      
5. Presently, infantcare and childcare subsidies are provided to parents only if the mother of the 
child is working. This is one of the incentives for mothers to return to the workforce but also 
is yet another way to discriminate against parents to choose to stay home in order to nurture 
their children personally. In order to provide all parents with equivalent options for preschool 
education, all parents should receive the same subsidies available to households with working 
mothers who send their children to childcare or infantcare centres for half day programmes.
CLIMATE CHANGE
1. Invest in and Incentivise switch to clean energy. Besides exploring the feasibility of installing 
solar  panels  and  wind  turbines  in  public  spaces,  Singapore  should  also  collaborate  with  the  
region in bringing clean solar and wind power to power the future Singapore.
2. Study  the  feasibility  of  renewable  energy,  but  ensure  that  mega  projects  don’t  create  
environmental problems. We do have concerns about nuclear energy, especially with regards 
to safety issues. We feel that solar energy could be more feasible. 
3. Scale back the rapid pace of deforestation in Singapore and increase the pace of our program 
to plant trees back is sufficient to counter the effects of rapid deforestation.
4. Increase public education in the 3Rs “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle”. 
17
18
1. P
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. Push   for   a   reduction   of   waste   from   households   and   businesses,   implementing   waste   
management schemes and sustainable neighbourhood recycling programmes.
6. Support the move towards more energy-efficient public transportation like electric vehicles.
7. Better enforce the Transboundary Haze Pollution Act to mitigate air pollution problems related 
to  forest  RDU  is  generally  against  big  expenditure,  but  are  agreeable  to  spending  on  social  
infrastructure for climate change purposes, which in turn must translate into upgraded living 
standards for Singaporeans. 
Another one of our Jurong GRC candidates, Alec Tok (55)
RED DOT
UNITED
VISIT US ONLINE
PHONE: 89080625
EMAIL: reddotunited
             @gmail.com
CONTACT US